feat(gateway): Streaming and cloning plugins (#5445)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_gateway_entities/plugin.md

* [Plugin expressions reference](/gateway/plugins/expressions/)
* [How to: Configure conditional plugin execution in {{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/configure-conditional-plugin-execution/)

## Cloning plugins {% new_in 3.15 %}

You can run multiple instances of a plugin by cloning it.
Cloning a plugin creates a custom instance of an existing plugin, letting you apply different configurations to your preferred scopes.
A cloned plugin shares its code and logic with the source plugin, but is treated as a separate plugin instance.

The priority of the cloned plugin can also be changed.

Cloned plugins are useful in many situations. For example:

* Running the same plugin on different attributes of a request. For example, you may want to validate two different JWTs in two separate headers.
* Allowing different teams who want to use the same plugin logic to apply different business rules. 
For example, a platform team may want to add a global IP deny list to a Gateway to enforce a global security policy, while an engineering team may also want to block IPs from a particular problematic customer on a single Route.

> * Running multiple instances of the Datakit plugin where different teams want to independently manage their own distinct flows on the same Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Running multiple instances of the [Datakit](/plugins/datakit/) plugin where different teams want to independently manage their own distinct flows on the same Gateway.
```

* [HTTP Log](/plugins/http-log/)
* [IP Restriction](/plugins/ip-restriction/)
* [Key Authentication](/plugins/key-auth/)
* [OPA](/plugins/opa/)
* [OpenID Connect](/plugins/openid-connect/)
* [Pre-function](/plugins/pre-function/)
* [Post-function](/plugins/post-function/)
* [Request Transformer Advanced](/plugins/request-transformer-advanced/)
* [Request Transformer](/plugins/request-transformer/)
* [Response Transformer Advanced](/plugins/response-transformer-advanced/)
* [Response Transformer](/plugins/response-transformer/)
* [Route by Header](/plugins/route-by-header/)
* [TCP Log](/plugins/tcp-log/)

### Example of cloned plugin

To create a plugin clone, use the `cloned_plugins` key to define a new plugin, then configure the clone the same as any other plugin through `plugins`:

```yaml
cloned_plugins:
# Create a clone of request transformer to use for global configuration
 - name: request-transformer-global
   ref: request-transformer
   priority: 999

# Define an entry for the new plugin under the global plugins key
plugins:
  - name: request-transformer-global
    config:
      add:
        headers:
          - "X-Global-Header:isSetGlobally"
```

> Where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
2/10 suggestion

> * `cloned_plugins.name`: The name of your new plugin. This can be any unique name that doesn't conflict with an existing plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `cloned_plugins.name`: The name of your new plugin. This must be a unique name that doesn't conflict with an existing plugin.
```

>   We recommend making this name distinct so that it doesn't conflict with future plugins (for example, `ACME-request-transformer-global`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  We recommend making this name distinct so that it doesn't conflict with future plugins. For example, `acme-request-transformer-global`.
```

* `cloned_plugins.ref`: The source plugin that this clone is based on.
* `cloned_plugins.priority`: The order in which the plugin runs relative to other plugins (see [plugins priorities](#plugin-priority)). This is an optional setting; 
  If not set, the plugin inherits the priority of the source plugin. 

>   For plugins with the same priority, the order depends on their names in reverse alphabetical order: plugins with alphabetically greater names run earlier (for example, `my-plugin-b` runs before `my-plugin-a`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `cloned_plugins.priority`: The order in which the plugin runs relative to other plugins (see [plugins priorities](#plugin-priority)). This is an optional setting.
  If not set, the plugin inherits the priority of the source plugin. 
  For plugins with the same priority, the order depends on their names in reverse alphabetical order: plugins with alphabetically greater names run earlier (for example, `my-plugin-b` runs before `my-plugin-a`).
```

{:.info}
> **Note:** Each plugin ref (for example, `ref: request-transformer`) can have a maximum of five clones.

> For more information, see the tutorial on [Cloning a {{site.base_gateway}} plugin](/how-to/clone-gateway-plugin/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the guide on [Cloning a {{site.base_gateway}} plugin](/how-to/clone-gateway-plugin/).
```

* [Plugin expressions reference](/gateway/plugins/expressions/)
* [How to: Configure conditional plugin execution in {{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/configure-conditional-plugin-execution/)

## Cloning plugins {% new_in 3.15 %}

You can run multiple instances of a plugin by cloning it. 
Cloning a plugin creates a custom instance of an existing plugin, letting you apply different configurations to different scopes. 
A cloned plugin has a distinct name and is subject to its own precedence rules. 
The priority of the cloned plugin can also be changed.

> Cloned plugins are useful in many situations:

Author: ```suggestion
Cloned plugins are useful in many situations. For example:
```

* Running the same plugin on different attributes of a request. For example, you may want to validate two different JWTs in two separate headers.
* Allowing different teams who want to use the same plugin logic to apply different business rules. 
For example, a platform team may want to add a global IP deny list to a Gateway to enforce a global security policy, while an engineering team may also want to block IPs from a particular problematic customer on a single Route.

> * Running multiple instances of the Datakit plugin where different teams want to implement independently manage their own distinct flows on the same Gateway.

Author: ```suggestion
* Running multiple instances of the Datakit plugin where different teams want to independently manage their own distinct flows on the same Gateway.
```

* [Plugin expressions reference](/gateway/plugins/expressions/)
* [How to: Configure conditional plugin execution in {{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/configure-conditional-plugin-execution/)

## Cloning plugins {% new_in 3.15 %}

You can run multiple instances of a plugin by cloning it. 

> Cloning a plugin creates a custom instance of an existing plugin, letting you apply different configurations to different scopes. 

Reviewer 2: It doesn't have to be different scopes. You can also apply different configurations to the same scope.

> A cloned plugin has a distinct name and is subject to its own precedence rules. 

Reviewer 2: I think the precedence rules remain the same as normal plugins. i.e. the plugin instance with the most specific scope for a given request will eventually run in this request.
A cloned plugin is treated as a separate plugin (from the source plugin) in terms of running plugin instances, although it shares the same code and logic with the source plugin.

The priority of the cloned plugin can also be changed.

Cloned plugins are useful in many situations. For example:

* Running the same plugin on different attributes of a request. For example, you may want to validate two different JWTs in two separate headers.
* Allowing different teams who want to use the same plugin logic to apply different business rules. 
For example, a platform team may want to add a global IP deny list to a Gateway to enforce a global security policy, while an engineering team may also want to block IPs from a particular problematic customer on a single Route.
* Running multiple instances of the Datakit plugin where different teams want to independently manage their own distinct flows on the same Gateway.
* In conjunction with [conditional plugins](/gateway/plugins/expressions/), running different configurations of the plugin based on different environmental conditions.

{:.info}

> > To use cloned plugins, you must set [`custom_plugin_streaming_enabled`](/gateway/configuration/#custom-plugin-streaming-enabled) to `on` in {{site.base_gateway}} configuration. 

Reviewer 3: cloned plugin doesn't require custom_plugin_streaming_enabled flag, It is only for streaming feature of custom plugin

Author: Oops. I was using the same container to test both 🤦‍♀️ . I'll remove.

> If running in hybrid mode, both the data plane and the control plane require this setting.

### Supported plugins

The following plugins support cloning:

* [OpenID Connect](/plugins/openid-connect/)
* [ACL](/plugins/acl/)
* [Pre-function](/plugins/pre-function/)
* [Post-function](/plugins/post-function/)
* [Request Transformer Advanced](/plugins/request-transformer-advanced/)
* [Request Transformer](/plugins/request-transformer/)
* [Response Transformer Advanced](/plugins/response-transformer-advanced/)
* [Response Transformer](/plugins/response-transformer/)
* [Key Authentication](/plugins/key-auth/)
* [File Log](/plugins/file-log/)
* [HTTP Log](/plugins/http-log/)
* [TCP Log](/plugins/tcp-log/)
* [IP Restriction](/plugins/ip-restriction/)
* [Route by Header](/plugins/route-by-header/)
* [OPA](/plugins/opa/)

> 

Reviewer 3: Datakit is supported

### Example of cloned plugin

To create a plugin clone, use the `cloned_plugins` key to define a new plugin, then configure the clone the same as any other plugin through `plugins`:

```yaml
cloned_plugins:
# Create a clone of request transformer to use for global configuration
 - name: request-transformer-global
   ref: request-transformer
   priority: 999

# Define an entry for the new plugin under the global plugins key
plugins:
  - name: request-transformer-global
    config:
      add:
        headers:
          - "X-Global-Header:isSetGlobally"
```

Where:

> * `cloned_plugins.name`: The name of your new plugin. This can be any unique name that doesn't conflict with an existing plugin.

Reviewer 2: We can also remind users to use a name distinct enough (with an org-prefix for example) to avoid conflicting with future plugins.

* `cloned_plugins.ref`: The source plugin that this clone will be based on.

> * `cloned_plugins.priority`: The order in which the plugin will run relative to other plugins (see [plugins priorities](#plugin-priority)). This is an optional setting; if not set, the plugin will fall back to [plugin precedence rules](#plugin-precedence). 

Reviewer 2: If not set, the plugin will inherit the priority of the source plugin. For plugins with the same priority, the order depends on their names: plugins with alphabetically greater names run earlier (for example: my-plugin-b runs before my-plugin-a).

Author: > plugins with alphabetically greater names run earlier (for example: `my-plugin-b` runs before `my-plugin-a`).

So it orders them in reverse alphabetical order? e.g. Z goes before A

Reviewer 2: Right. It's a bit counterintuitive but it's already the case. Changing it would be a breaking change.

* [OPA](/plugins/opa/)
* [OpenID Connect](/plugins/openid-connect/)
* [Pre-function](/plugins/pre-function/)
* [Post-function](/plugins/post-function/)
* [Request Transformer Advanced](/plugins/request-transformer-advanced/)
* [Request Transformer](/plugins/request-transformer/)
* [Response Transformer Advanced](/plugins/response-transformer-advanced/)
* [Response Transformer](/plugins/response-transformer/)
* [Route by Header](/plugins/route-by-header/)
* [TCP Log](/plugins/tcp-log/)

### Example of cloned plugin

To create a plugin clone, use the `cloned_plugins` key to define a new plugin, then configure the clone the same as any other plugin through `plugins`:

```yaml
cloned_plugins:
# Create a clone of request transformer to use for global configuration
 - name: request-transformer-global
   ref: request-transformer
   priority: 999

# Define an entry for the new plugin under the global plugins key
plugins:
  - name: request-transformer-global
    config:
      add:
        headers:
          - "X-Global-Header:isSetGlobally"
```

Where:
* `cloned_plugins.name`: The name of your new plugin. This can be any unique name that doesn't conflict with an existing plugin.

>   We recommend making this name distinct so that it doesn't conflict with future plugins (for example, `ACME-request-transformer-global`).

Reviewer 2: Let's not use upper case letters in the example, the name only accepts lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens. To be more precise, the first character must be a lowercase letter and the last character must not be a hyphen.
